We previously looked at the electric dipole and here it is again this electric dipole is made from a
positive charge and one negative charge.
The magnitudes of those charge are minus one nano cool and plus one for the positive.
And again they're separated by a certain distance.
The white arrows represent the electric field vector is at different positions.
If I was gonna draw the field lines they would look like this.
You remember what they look like.
Something like this.
Try to draw them accurately.
Again you kind of have to trace out
or make sure that the lines go through those vectors like this.
I'm only going to draw some of them right here.
Maybe one more down here at the bottom all right.
This is what the electric field lines look like the vectors are just the white arrows right here.
And again there's other ones over here.
I could extend that like this and maybe have other field lines that end on the negative charges.
All right that's what the sketch looks like.
The green lines represent the equip potentials again and I wrote just some of them.
Let me go ahead and fill this out.
These are the equip potential surfaces.
I think I started out at 20 volts 10 volts 5 volts and 2.5 volts negative on this side so negative 2.5
volts positive 2.5 volts positive 5 volts negative 5 volts and you could see what they look like again.
Let me just trace out one of them.
The line right in the center right here.
This is 0 volts right there is a 0 volt aquí potential for this electric dipole.
And that is because again if you imagine just one particular point up here right.
We have two contributions we have the positive one which is a certain distance away and we also have
the negative one which is a certain distance away.
When you add both of those contributions up you're going to get zero volts everywhere along that line.
Again as I start moving closer to the positive I'm starting to get positive electrical potential.
This here was 10 volts All right what else.
Twenty volts ups say 20 and I right 30 20 volts All right and negative is on the other side.
Okay.
So again the key that we're going to notice is that the echoey potentials again these guys here they
are perpendicular to the electric field lines everywhere right.
They're never parallel to the field lines.
The other thing you could see again when you go from positive electrical potential toward negative electrical
potential right the field lines always go from high voltage toward low voltage.
Okay.
So again you could see those properties and it really doesn't matter how complicated the field looks
like even if I added other point charges out here in space I would still get the same result.
Okay so we're gonna go look at the mathematical link now between them and why do we always get this
relationship right here.
Okay.
But this is the example for the electric dipole.
And again you could see that relationship hold nicely.